Utah Carol by Daniel Jefferson.
Lovely.
You ask me, little friends, why I'm silent, sad, and still.
Why my brow is always cloudy like the darkness on the hill.
Well, I'll bend your pony closer and I'll tell a simple tale of my partner.
You saw Carol and his last ride on the trail.
With the cactus and the thistles and the Mexican foreign land Where the cattle roam in thousands without either mark or brand There's a grave without a headstone, without either date or name There is where my partner's sleeping, it's the place from which I came
we were rounding up one morning when our work was almost done to the right the cattle started in a wild and maddened run but the boss's little daughter who was holding on that side started in to turn the cattle there is where my father dies
There was nothing on the ranches that would cause the cattle to fight Half so much as a red blanket that they waved before the side In the north she saw her danger and she turned upon his face Then leaning from the saddle she tried her blanket to replace But in leaning from the saddle fell in the front of that wild tide
Fly there, I am a-coming, was the word my partner cried.
Every boy on the cow range, they all held their breath.
For they knew that fate was trying, it was fate of life or death.
About fifty yards behind her, you saw Carol came riding fast.
Little did he think at moments that the ride would be his last.
He swept her fast, he passed her, but he caught her in his arms, and the back sink kept left beneath him, and he fell beside the door, but to wait up on the saddle like had never been before.